So we think about this what we wanna do is
we need to start racing some things right?
We wanna race the different
like whether or
not we should show the loading indicator,
when the data came back?
Did we show a loading indicator for
long enough?
These are various things that we need
to figure out and coordinate between.
Our code has a little bit
of a problem here as well,
which is we are getting these
values at initialization.
So I haven't adjusted to
many of the numbers yet, but
these should probably be moved in as well.
So we'll go ahead or grab this and
We'll pop this in here is the same.
Passable but not good version
that we had before, right again,
sure, it doesn't flash a loading indicator
real fast, but also it delays things.
We can do better.
So, we could theoretically
get our data and
what we need to do is we
wanna race between whether or
not we should show the loading.
And whether or
not they all race between whether I wish
to show the loading and
whether the data came back, right?
And so let's get our data
into a variable over here so
we can play around with a little bit more.
So then we'll call this data
So now we've got the kind of 3 pieces
that we need to deal with here.
So first of all, whether or not we should
show the loading should probably be a race
between the data and the loading,
whichever happens first.
Should be good to go.
So let's call this one I don't know.
Load like the idea of whether or
not you're loading
That's a good point.
Go theoretically work but we can do better
Marks in charge naming things
we'll do with that in a second,
we got show loading and
the data right whichever one of
these emits first should
theoretically win.
All right, so okay, one of these should
happen, and then we'll do the next one and
then the last one.
Now, we'll have a little bit of a problem.
I'm here we'll deal with that.
We fetch.
Let's see res should show loading or data.
Yeah, we want the API to
be faster at this point.
So we'll say show loading after 2 seconds.
But our API should go
back after one second.
Refresh that.
So API construction one second.
In 2 seconds.
So we got our data back and
we still showed it.
So we got to deal with that in a second,
all right.
Let's see what we got here.
So we've got our data, we're going and
like fetching the data a second
time which feels weird, so
we'll have to handle that as well,
hide loading.
You could actually make this a timer.
We're gonna say that hide loading,is only
fire after whatever we're looking for.
Right, so this one will delay and
then do the thing,
this one will fire after
a certain amount of time.
So we've got both of these in place.
Should we show the loading?
Really, we should show it.
We wanna then we want to hide it depending
like whichever one happens first.
So we wanna window here.
Here of should we show should we hide?
And then what should we do in this case?
See what we got here.
This still isn't working right,
we're fetching.
I was also our initial values.
Let's go ahead and say, show the letter.
Yeah, cool.
Well, this turned into true I mean,
let's see 29 show loading.
We're fetching a second time.
>> Do you wanna remove the data from
your concat census in the race?
>> Yes.
Well, this could be slightly
problematic because also
what happens if show loading wins?
>> We never fetch?
>> Yeah.
So like,
we would basically just deal with it.
Even if this happened, we'd fetch,
but we'd never hear about it, right?
So let's see.
So we've got our ability
to fetch the data,
scroll up a little bit.
We've got we had the ability to show the
loading faster data than hide it, right?
Now we could race the two of them, right?
The show loading and
the should show loading, right?
And that's kind of what we should do.
First, we show the data then we hide it.
It still problematic.
Next what we could do is
figure out how to say like.
Hey, do your point.
I want this data one way or
the other, right?
Cuz we know from earlier when we were
learning that every subscription will
fire off another request.
Right, but I both wanna race
the loading indicator with the data.
But then if I grab on to that data later
and you have it, I still want it, right.
So I would like to be able
to subscribe multiple times.
So that fetch of data so I can hopefully
race them together a little bit better.
And there are a few different operators
that help us with this, right.
One of the questions I got earlier
were hot versus cold observables,
a cold one is your normal observable.
Every subscription gets a new version
fetch data will do a from interval or
from fetch rather and
go get it and give it back to us.
In our case, we could either use,
share or share replay.
Share is basically now
a hot observable and so
everyone that gets it gets the same
copy of the user observable.
Share replay does kind of what the name
says on the 10.It's shareable,
but it will also give you
some number of values.
In the past, right this way,
if it is already completed and
we had that data, we missed it.
Give me cuz this thing really
only shows that data, so
give me what it had as
its data at the time.
And so I show up late to the party,
I can have that as well.
So let's try that out.
I don't know why he making a typo.
So we'll do share replay.
One can share.
You might have missed some of the previous
transmissions, but you'll hear for
all new things share replay.
As will also give you a stream
of the last any number of
values that were omitted that
you might have missed cool.
So we've got the data fetch data
we're gonna be able to share that
between different observables.
Whether or not we should show
the loading we will delay, so
for up, that's part of my issue
where we want to show after.
All right, so we'll have a value
that we're gonna delay, and
then we're gonna show
the loading indicator.
So they were set both by taking it
down and showing it at the same time,
all right.
So we've got this show loading,
which is gonna delay and
then now at the correct amount of time,
show our value.
High loading, it's just a timer that's
set to do the thing, but then probably we
need to actually, we really wanna
grab the first event off of there.
So we'll pipe it.
>> We need to show loading
false will never hide.
>> Where's that?
>> Don't need to.
>> Well, this is when we wanna show it.
We're saying we're gonna show it we're
gonna wait until a certain number of
milliseconds.
Then we're gonna show it,
hide loading is gonna be the one
that takes it down cuz two things,
right need to figure out whether or
not we should hide the loading, right?
If it has been long enough and the data
comes back, we don't need to go for
a victory lap for
another 500 milliseconds, right.
We showed it we didn't flash in front of
them it is only if the data came back so
fast, test that it would flash,
then we need to deal with that.
So highlighted we're basically a timer.
It's like, loading indicating went up.
We're timing the loading being there.
We will make sure the loading was
there for a certain amount of time.
If that time has passed and
we're not gonna flash anything.
Soon as the data comes back,
take it down, right.
So basically,
high loading really just cares about
when we started showing the the loading.
And really,
we only want the first as we saw before.
Cool and
I keep it in semi-colons in there.
So show loading, take an event,
delay it, show it when you need to show.
I just could I could pass the value
through to if I wanted to.
So I could say,
now we have a timer that's gonna go off,
right that we want to start
after we show the loading,
right so immediately,
start at fire the event.
For showing the loading,
that's still gonna delay after that
we are going to fire whether enough
time has passed to take it down.
And then also the data can
pass if it's happened, so
basically what to play through through
the events in order to show that,
show the loading that's gonna still delay.
Its of it's gonna fire, but then it's
gonna wait before it does that tap.
So fires immediately second thing,
it happens.
It's gonna delay.
Its gonna tap.
It's gonna show the, that's the first one.
After that, we're showing the loading,
set a timer for
how long things should
happen before it takes down.
Then we'll have data actually clean it up.
So you'll notice the high
loading isn't actually do it.
It's like you could even call this.
Time to hide the loading.
Right, so should show the loading which
will then actually race these two.
So loading actually should show
loading changes a little bit,
because we wanna race this whole
process with the data itself.
So here we're gonna say basically
what I just said in words,
immediately start the process
of delaying yourself
a little bit of time before
you show the loading.
So we'll say that then,
soon if you have shown
the loading indicator at all
if that has ever happened,
right, set a timer to take it down
However, don't take it down
unless you have some data, right?
[LAUGH].
Don't tell me we're done loading
if you're not done loading, so
then the third thing is.
Is to take that data, And that's when
we'll pull down the loading indicator.
Right, this is just handling whether or
not we should show loading
at all data dollar sign.
That whole process of spinning up
tiny when you should take it down,
should race with the data.
Cuz if the data comes back before we show,
I don't care about any of this, right?
It's only if this first event triggers.
Then I want to show the loading indicator.
I'm gonna keep it up for
as long as it's supposed to be kept up.
And then when the data finally comes
back in, I wanna take it down, right.
So this will be roughly the delta
between when we decided to show it and
however long we said it should be up.
If you can get away without showing it,
please do.
But if you're gonna show it,
set another timer for
the bare minimum it should be up.
And then when the data comes back, take it
down, the data comes back in that window.
We're still gonna leave it up there.
We can deal with the data
simultaneously as well.
So now should show loading and
the data itself
All right, so we're gonna say that
the API takes, will show this but
show the loading indicator for
at least 5 seconds.
So the little ridiculous button so
loading goes up the data is received
it comes back it takes it down.
Now 5 seconds is ridiculous we shouldn't
show that what happens if the API request
comes back in 500 milliseconds,
all right, let's just console clear.
So this case we're back
no loading indicator.
Right, we didn't show it at all.
This one we're gonna have the API
response come back like JavaScript timers
are weird, let's give ourselves like 200
milliseconds of wiggle room there, right.
Because it could still be slightly
off with a fake timer we'll show it.
But again, we'll keep it.
All right, if you're gonna show it,
the data is back, but
we're still showing it for a little bit.
Now, 500 milliseconds is again for
dramatic effect.
But again,
you'd probably find that to be maybe like,
I feel like 300 is the threshold for
like not seeming ridiculous.
Now even that was you adjust it
right 300 even seemed a bit much.
Yeah, so you can play with
the numbers a little bit but
yeah it this is the tricky part of kind of
pulling together a lot of these concepts.
Like why would you wanna concatenate
stuff because again we threw a event
into the future showing the loading
soon as we show the load.
And then we set a timer for the bare
minimum take it down and then if we have
the data, if not keep waiting for
the data and take down the loading.
But if the data comes back before any
of this it wins forget this ignore this
forget all this complicated logic
we don't wanna deal with it, right?
And that's where you can start to play
with the time race different pieces of
the timeline against each other.
Be able to orchestrate and coordinate
different things in different scenarios,
so on and so forth, right?
And so what our excess seeks to do for
us is it seeks to give us kind of
the tools for
kind of playing with all of these things.
That might happen over time to
figure out which one happens first,
how to coordinate them.
What order do we wanna merge them all in?
Do we wanna switch between another one?
Do we wanna finish what we started
before we do the next thing, right.
what are all the different things
that we want to kind of compile and
play around with, right?
But a lot of the pieces from the very
simple like turning things into observable
with foreign have to do bouncing things.
To switching between API's to
putting things in a given order or
figuring out which one ends up first.
These small fundamental pieces can
become kind of the bigger like core
of how you build the more
complicated things.
Because the trick part is like you'd
have to squint at this code and
read through it totally right but
it's not a lot of code, right.
The tricky part is the actual
like logic of like okay, so
when do I wanna show this thing.
And when do I wanna take it down right and
that's unfortunately a complicated
problem JavaScript aside, right?
It's just our job as software engineers
is to effectively like work through
all of these weird contingencies and
edge cases.
And sometimes it gets a little squirrely,
but
ideally, when it comes time to sit
down and start figuring out the code.
And like we could probably break this
out into like some smaller methods and
stuff along those lines.
And annotated a little bit better, but
to begin to figure out those things.
And I think that without
a decent abstraction for
dealing with things that happen over time.
You'd be setting a whole bunch of weird
variables that you'd try to keep in
state, right?
Okay, now I'm gonna set this one to true,
and
then I'm gonna set date now
plus the amount of interval.
And then when this thing comes back I'm
gonna say if data now is greater than,
I'm already frustrated,
just, I can't even write.
And so to give ourselves tools.
We kind of, managing all these things.
Again, it's all JavaScript under the hood,
right?
But to can give us abstractions for
handling, all of those things as well.